The right answer must satisfy two conditions:
1.The large rectangle area should be equal to the sum of small rectangles
2.Count of all the points should be even, and that of all the four corner points should be one

For those who are concerned with the validity of the two conditions, here is a quick proof.
Proof to condition 1 is straightforward so I will focus on condition 2. First by observation we know it holds true for a perfect rectangle (consider how many small rectangles can overlap at a particular point: the number has to be even except for the four corner points of the prefect rectangle). The real question is whether it can also be true for some non-perfect rectangle.
Let's begin with the question: what will a non-perfect rectangle look like? Of course it can look like rather complicated but here is a simple way to define it: any non-perfect rectangle can be obtained by a sequence of adding or removing rectangular parts from its perfect counterpart (the order for adding or removing does not matter here). If condition 1 is held true, the non-perfect rectangle must be built by both adding and removing small rectangles such that the total area of added rectangles compensates those of removed.

Without loss of generality, let's focus on the first rectangle (denoted as FR) that is being removed (i.e., we have perfect rectangle before removing it). FR has four corner points. Before removing it, each corner points will appear even times. After it's gone, all the four corner points will appear odd times. To make condition 2 hold true, for each of these four points, we have to either add or remove a rectangle such that each of them will once again appear even times. The key here is that the total number of rectangles added or removed is at least two, since the added or removed rectangles cannot overlap with FR, therefore each added or removed rectangle can contain at most two of the four corner points of FR.
Now we have at least two extra rectangles (either added or removed), with a total of eight corner points. Four of those points coincide with the four corner points of FR. What about the other four points? For each of these points, if it belongs to a rectangle that is being removed, then before removing, it must appear even times and after removing, it will appear odd times. If it belongs to a rectangle that is being added, depending on whether it coincides with any point in the perfect rectangle, its number of appearance will still be odd (appear once if does not coincide with any point, odd if it does since the original number of appearance before adding is even). In either case (adding or removing rectangle), there is no way to keep the number of appearance of all points even, therefore condition 2 cannot be true for non-perfect rectangles.
I think this is a flavor of the Packing Problem which I believe what applications are using (for example) to fit horizontal and vertical photos side by side on your rectangle phone